Modelica.Mechanics.Translational: Modelica.Mechanics.Translational



Library to model 1-dimensional, translational mechanical systems

Information
===========

::

This package contains components to model 1-dimensional translational
mechanical systems.

The filled and non-filled green squares at the left and right side of a
component represent mechanical flanges. Drawing a line between such
squares means that the corresponding flanges are rigidly attached to
each other. The components of this library can be usually connected
together in an arbitrary way. E.g. it is possible to connect two springs
or two sliding masses with inertia directly together.

The only connection restriction is that the Coulomb friction elements
(e.g., MassWithStopAndFriction) should be only connected together
provided a compliant element, such as a spring, is in between. The
reason is that otherwise the frictional force is not uniquely defined if
the elements are stuck at the same time instant (i.e., there does not
exist a unique solution) and some simulation systems may not be able to
handle this situation, since this leads to a singularity during
simulation. It can only be resolved in a "clean way" by combining the
two connected friction elements into one component and resolving the
ambiguity of the frictional force in the stuck mode.

Another restriction arises if the hard stops in model
MassWithStopAndFriction are used, i. e. the movement of the mass is
limited by a stop at smax or smin. This requires the states Stop.s and
Stop.v . If these states are eliminated during the index reduction the
model will not work. To avoid this any inertias should be connected via
springs to the Stop element, other sliding masses, dampers or hydraulic
chambers must be avoided.

In the icon of every component an arrow is displayed in grey color. This
arrow characterizes the coordinate system in which the vectors of the
component are resolved. It is directed into the positive translational
direction (in the mathematical sense). In the flanges of a component, a
coordinate system is rigidly attached to the flange. It is called flange
frame and is directed in parallel to the component coordinate system. As
a result, e.g., the positive cut-force of a "left" flange (flange_a) is
directed into the flange, whereas the positive cut-force of a "right"
flange (flange_b) is directed out of the flange. A flange is described
by a Modelica connector containing the following variables:

    Modelica.SIunits.Position s    "Absolute position of flange";
    flow Modelica.SIunits.Force f  "Cut-force in the flange";

This library is designed in a fully object oriented way in order that
components can be connected together in every meaningful combination
(e.g., direct connection of two springs or two shafts with inertia). As
a consequence, most models lead to a system of differential-algebraic
equations of index 3 (= constraint equations have to be differentiated
twice in order to arrive at a state space representation) and the
Modelica translator or the simulator has to cope with this system
representation. According to our present knowledge, this requires that
the Modelica translator is able to symbolically differentiate equations
(otherwise it is e.g., not possible to provide consistent initial
conditions; even if consistent initial conditions are present, most
numerical DAE integrators can cope at most with index 2 DAEs).

In version 3.2 of the Modelica Standard Library, all dissipative
components of the Translational library got an optional heatPort
connector to which the dissipated energy is transported in form of heat.
This connector is enabled via parameter "useHeatPort". If the heatPort
connector is enabled, it must be connected, and if it is not enabled, it
must not be connected. Independently, whether the heatPort is enabled or
not, the dissipated power is available from the new variable "lossPower"
(which is positive if heat is flowing out of the heatPort). For an
example, see Examples.HeatLosses.

Library Officer

Martin Otter
    Deutsches Zentrum für Luft und Raumfahrt e.V. (DLR) Institut für
    Robotik und Mechatronik (DLR-RM) Abteilung Systemdynamik und
    Regelungstechnik Postfach 1116 D-82230 Wessling Germany email:
    Martin.Otter@dlr.de

Contributors to this library:

-   Main author until 2006:
        Peter Beater Universität Paderborn, Abteilung Soest Fachbereich
        Maschinenbau/Automatisierungstechnik Lübecker Ring 2 D 59494
        Soest Germany email: info@beater.de

-   Anton Haumer
        Technical Consulting & Electrical Engineering A-3423
        St.Andrae-Woerdern, Austria email: a.haumer@haumer.at

-   Martin Otter (DLR-RM)

Copyright © 1998-2010, Modelica Association, Anton Haumer and
Universität Paderborn, FB 12.

This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at your
own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the
Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the disclaimer of
warranty) see Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2 or visit
http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.

::

Extends from Modelica.Icons.Package (Icon for standard packages).

Package Content
===============

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Name                                                Description
  --------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  [image5] Examples                                   DeMonstration
                                                      examples of the
                                                      components of this
                                                      package

  [image6] Components                                 Components for 1D
                                                      translational
                                                      mechanical drive
                                                      trains

  [image7] Sensors                                    Sensors for 1-dim.
                                                      translational
                                                      mechanical
                                                      quantities

  [image8] Sources                                    Sources to drive 1D
                                                      translational
                                                      mechanical
                                                      components

  [image9] Interfaces                                 Interfaces for
                                                      1-dim. translational
                                                      mechanical
                                                      components
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

Automatically generated Fri Nov 12 16:30:47 2010.
